Hey guys, what's up? Matt here and today I just wanted to make a quick video to answer
a question that I've been getting a lot recently, which is what do you think is the most ideal
ratio between passive immersion and active immersion? Now the short answer is I don't really
think the ratio matters much at all. The bottom line is that the more you do of each type of
immersion, the more quickly that you're going to improve. So let's take a step back real quick
and define our terms. So what do I really mean when I say active immersion versus passive immersion?
Well, I actually have a whole video on this topic that I made a couple years ago, so I'll put a
link to that in the description, but the short summary is that active immersion is when you're
sitting down and giving your full undivided attention to consuming something in your target
language, whether that's sitting down and reading a book or sitting down and watching a TV show
and just pausing and looking things up and making a real effort to try to understand what's happening.
Now you don't actually have to be sitting down while you do active immersion, but for whatever
reason that's the image of active immersion that I have in my head. On the other hand, we have passive
immersion, which is where you're listening to something in your target language while you do
another activity, whether that's cook or clean or commute or exercise. Now the amount of attention
that you're paying while doing passive immersion tends to fluctuate a lot moment to moment,
but because in general, you're going to be doing passive immersion while engaging in a mindless
activity like cooking or cleaning, it is possible to pay a pretty decent amount of attention to your
target language while doing passive immersion. Now there's also a third type of immersion called
background immersion, which is where you pretty much just leave target language audio playing in
the background and then ignore it and do totally other activities, but that's not really too relevant
to this particular video. Now in general, active immersion is more beneficial per minute than passive
immersion is simply because you're paying more attention, you're looking things up and you're just
doing more work. So if you ever have an option between doing 10 more minutes of active immersion
or 10 additional minutes of passive immersion, well from a raw efficiency point of view, it's going to
be better to pick the active immersion because you're going to improve more per minute while doing
active rather than passive, but the thing is in general, we do passive immersion during times
inner day where we wouldn't be able to do active immersion, like I said earlier, like when you're cooking,
cleaning, exercising, these are all situations where it's not possible to do active immersion because
by definition, active immersion is when you're not multitasking, it's when you're giving your full
undivided attention just to the immersion. And so when we're talking about times inner day where
we're commuting, cooking, cleaning, these are things that we have to do, we can't just not clean
anymore or not commute anymore, but those are also times where we are not able to do active
immersion. So we're left with this choice of doing passive immersion or nothing. And although active
immersion is more beneficial per minute than passive immersion, passive immersion is much much,
much more beneficial per minute than no immersion at all. So it's always better to just do passive
immersion when you can and do active immersion when you can. And this is why ratios aren't really
applicable. So here's another framework that you can use to think about it. Let's say that we have
this concept of immersion points and it takes a certain number of immersion points to get fluent
in a foreign language. Now let's say that you get four immersion points per minute when doing
active immersion and you get one immersion point per minute when doing passive immersion. Well,
of course, if you have an option, you want to be doing active immersion because you're going to get
more points per minute, which is going to move you closer to fluency, but during situations where
active immersion isn't possible, well, it's still better to do passive immersion than nothing because
at least you're getting one point per minute and every four minutes you basically have accumulated
the equivalent of one minute worth of active immersion. Now this ratio of four to one when it comes
to the value of passive versus active is a little iffy. It's hard to say exactly what the difference
is because like I said before, the amount of attention that you're really paying while doing passive
immersion tends to change quite a bit. And also the more active immersion that you do in general,
the more you're going to benefit from passive immersion. But I think as a general framework,
thinking of three to four minutes of passive immersion, being equivalent to around one minute
of active immersion is probably an okay rule of thumb. So in conclusion, the ratio between your
active immersion and your passive immersion doesn't actually matter. Just do active immersion when
you can and when you can't do passive immersion. And in general, the more you do of each, the more
quickly that you'll move towards fluency. I hope this little video was useful to you guys. If it was,
then please don't forget to like, subscribe, and hit the bell. Also, if you're interested, please
check out the Mass Immersion Approach Patreon where you can find the beta release of new Anki out-ons,
a community of other people using MIA to learn foreign languages, and also tens of hours of content
of Q&A videos from myself. So that's all for this video. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll catch you
guys in the next one.